[Music]
Leonardo da Vinci the incredible
Renaissance artist most famous for his
work Mona Lisa was so much more than a
painter he was a mathematician writer
historian engineer food truck chef and
inventor just to name a few
no not really a food truck chef but
everything else yeah he was a man truly
and almost eerily ahead of his time and
here's the proof first of all da Vinci
created what looks like an actual
satellite image and he did it way back
in 1502 centuries before the first real
satellite photos of Earth were taken in
1959 but da Vinci's map is no snapshot
from a satellite or even an airplane
looking down at a city as it might
appear it was hand drawn how did he do
this in an age long before Google Maps
or aerial flight was ever a thing well
the only way that genius engineer could
have pulled off such a feat was by using
his creative mind along with tools to
calculate degrees and distance he most
likely used an odometer or surveyors
wheel as it was also called that means
to have created this map which shows a
direct view from above the town of Imola
Italy da Vinci would have had to
physically walk around the entire city
through every single Street and alley to
painstakingly measure all the angles and
distances correctly it's safe to assume
that it probably took him a long long
time to do with all his measurements and
calculations the artist set to work
drawing out the amazingly detailed
accurate and more importantly
informative map you might wonder why
he'd take on such an immense project
well as a military architect and
engineer da Vinci was commissioned to do
it by army commander and politician says
air Borgia
but Leonardo's military expertise wasn't
just useful for man making
he also created the machine gun now this
isn't the modern-day one you might see
at Call of Duty it looked and worked a
bit differently it was an organ that had
33 barrels DaVinci created it because he
thought that cannons at the time took
way too long to be loaded and fired this
new invention would allow quicker shots
to be taken pretty much automatically
this was also a brainchild of his time
working as a military engineer for
borgia moving away from 16th century
military breakthroughs
there's also da Vinci's robot yes a
renaissance robot or more specifically a
robot Knight that he invented probably
around 1495 the mechanical Knight could
sit stand and even wave it was so
incredibly designed that NASA even used
the Vinci's plans when they created
their robots when I say he was eerily
ahead of his time I wasn't kidding now
if you google who invented the parachute
it won't be Leonardo's name that pops up
but make no mistake the Vinci did create
a parachute his version was simply quite
different from the ones we have today
someone else got the credit for
inventing the parachute but without
Leonardo's ideas it might never have
come into existence and not too long ago
a man named Adrian Nichols created a
parachute based off of da Vinci's design
and despite all the doubt among the
scientific community it actually worked
in fact the parachute Leonardo design
worked better for him than the modern
ones maybe that taught scientists a
lesson that you should never doubt the
Vinci's genius I'm sure that parachute
would be helpful if anyone ever tries to
build Leonardo's 15 century helicopter
one glance at the designs and you
probably wouldn't know what you're
looking at a small pyramid shaped body
under what looks like a waterpark slide
a ramp but it is basically a medieval
helicopter Leonardo never actually built
this machine but if it's anything like
the parachute chances are it would work
from the skies to the seeds you can
thank the Vinci for inventing the diving
suit as well again his design was a lot
different from the modern scuba gear we
use today
da Vinci's creation was made out of
leather and it didn't have an oxygen
tank attached to the back but rather
tubes coming from a mask up to a sort of
a bell that provided air for the diver
Leonardo's diving suit wasn't for
recreational purposes either
it was another military invention of his
and it was supposed to help men sabotage
enemy ships by cutting holes in the
bottom and infiltrating vessels without
being seen now that's some terrifying
ingenuity Leonardo also invented the
prototype of something most of us use
every day the car although once again
it's not the same as the vehicles we
drive today
da Vinci's car only moved forward
backward and a little to the sides but
it couldn't really be steered in any
direction you'd like perhaps it sounds
useless but you have to remember that
this was the age of the Renaissance the
fact that he imagined a mechanical
device that could take you from A to B
is outstanding albeit this early car
wasn't really designed for transport he
invented it as a kind of theater prop to
create cool illusions this makes sense
as Leonardo and his core was an artist
all of these inventions show us that
Leonardo da Vinci was a dreamer he
imagined people flying like birds
swimming like fish and well conquering
enemies in the most ingenious and sneaky
ways of course da Vinci was an amazing
inventor painter and an overall great
mind centuries ahead of his time and
without a lot of his designs our world
might look like a completely different
place today so which of these inventions
surprise to you the most let me know
your thoughts down in the comments below
if you learned something new today then
give this video
like and shared with a friend but don't
go anywhere just yet we have over 2,000
cool videos for you to check out all you
have to do is pick the left or right
video click on it and enjoy stay on the
bright side of life
[Music]